Everything in Python is an object and in the next couple of videos we're going to talk about this idea
of 0 P or object oriented programming.
What it is what it's useful for and why it's such an important topic for us to become great developers.
Now when I say everything in Python is an object what do I mean by this.
Well remember are data types that we've talked about.
If I click Run here you'll see that we have all our data types but we have this class keyword in front
of it.
And I mentioned previously that this is something that we're going to get into now.
Everything here is an object because in Python everything is built by this class keyword and we're able
to use different methods on our objects like this to perform some actions on them.
So what is an object.
Objects have methods like these and attributes that you can access with the DOT method.
Now Object Oriented Programming allows us to go beyond what Python just gives us which are these data
types.
But wouldn't it be amazing if we can create our own and make Python even more powerful and using object
oriented programming.
And while we're going to learn the class keyword we're gonna be able to do just that so that the list
over here can grow to our own custom objects.
Now we're going to explore this topic of object oriented programming.
What objects exactly are and what this class keyword is over the next couple of videos.
But the key takeaway is that we're able to create our own types our own data types with different attributes
and methods.
Now why is this useful let's have a look at an example let's say we're working for Amazon and Amazon
recently decided that hey you know what.
We're going to have delivery drones that are going to deliver our customers packages a lot faster.
But we need to code this drone right and up to this point we've learned that we can do that with basic
functions conditional logic and just writing our code on a dot pi file but the problem is as code gets
bigger and bigger and bigger.
It's not just a one file.
It's not just 10 lines of code.
It becomes hundreds and thousands and millions of lines of code divided into different files code gets
more and more complicated because we live in a world where technology is everywhere and programming
something like a drone is quite complicated especially when it's a delivery drone.
So how can we use object oriented programming to make this code more manageable.
Well o p is what we call a paradigm that is it's a way for us to think about our code and structure
our code in a way that is easier to maintain extend and write.
So if we're writing a program about let's say that does drone delivery what we break it up into small
pieces into little objects that represents the real world.
For example I might code an object my own data type which is the propellers that allow the drone to
fly and maybe another developer works on the camera and the vision part of the drone.
Another developer can perhaps create the clause that hold the package and then another developer might
be able to work on the signaling so that we're able to send signals from our drone to let's say Amazon
headquarters and nowhere.
All our drones are what we're doing here is we're breaking up functionality and data into different
pieces that model the real world into separate objects so that different people can work on different
parts and then we can just combine them afterwards.
And the beauty is when we want to let's say create a delivery system that's not a drone.
This time while it's a tank like delivery robot we can use the same pieces such as the camera and the
claw and maybe the signaling.
But we can just remove it so the propellers and use the tracks that lets say taxis and somebody else
can code this part but we're able to use different pieces extend functionality from our drone into different
objects.
Now if you still don't understand 100 percent don't worry we're going to go over this over and over
throughout the next couple of videos.
The main takeaway is that OBE is a paradigm a way to think about our code a way for us to structure
our code so that as it gets bigger and bigger we're able to be organized because we're not writing silly
10 line codes.
We're writing millions in lines of codes.
Companies like Netflix have thousands of developers that are writing code every single day.
They need a way to structure and organize this code so that what it just doesn't turn into complete
chaos and complete spaghetti code.
Let's take a break and learn more about OPI in the next video.